feat: Navigation Docs (#425)
unoplatform/uno.extensions: doc/Navigation/HowTo-DisplayItem.md

# How-To: Display Item Details

This topic walks through how to use Navigation to display the details of an item selected from a list. This demonstrates and important aspect of Navigation which is the ability to pass data as part of a navigation request.

> [!Tip] This guide assumes you used the Uno.Extensions `dotnet new unoapp-extensions` template to create the solution. Instructions for creating an application from the template can be found [here](../Extensions/GettingStarted/UsingUnoExtensions.md)

## Step-by-steps

- Define a widget class for data to be passed between viewmodels

```csharp
public record Widget(string Name, double Weight){}
```

- Change Second viewap to include datamap

```csharp
new ViewMap<SecondPage, SecondViewModel>(Data: new DataMap<Widget>())
```

- Change MainViewModel to create a widget and pass as data in navigation method
       
```csharp
public async Task GoToSecondPage()
{
	var widget = new Widget("CrazySpinner", 34.0);

> 	await _navigator.NavigateViewModelAsync<SecondViewModel>(this, data:widget);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	await _navigator.NavigateViewModelAsync<SecondViewModel>(this, data: widget);
```

}
```

> - Update SecondViewModel to received a widget

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Update the second view model constructor to accept a widget
```

```csharp
public class SecondViewModel
{
    public string Name { get; }
    
    public SecondViewModel(Widget widget)
	{
        Name = widget.Name; 
	}
}
```

> - Add TextBlock to SecondPage xaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add a TextBlock to second page XAML
```

```xml
<TextBlock HorizontalAlignment="Center"
                   VerticalAlignment="Center"><Run Text="Widget Name:" /><Run Text="{Binding Name}" /></TextBlock>
```          
- Show (screenshot) app on second page showing widget name            
            
- Because there's a mapping between the Widget and the SecondViewModel, can just navigate to show data. Change navigate method to NavigateDataAsync

```csharp
await _navigator.NavigateDataAsync(this, data: widget);
```

> - Add Widgets property to MainViewModel

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add a `Widgets` property to your main view model, similar to the following:
```

```csharp
public Widget[] Widgets { get; } = new[]
{
    new Widget("NormalSpinner", 5.0),
    new Widget("HeavySpinner",50.0)
};
```

> - Add XAML to MainPage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Update main page XAML to display widgets
```

```xml
<ListView ItemsSource="{Binding Widgets}"
            uen:Navigation.Request="Second">
    <ListView.ItemTemplate>
        <DataTemplate>
            <StackPanel Orientation="Horizontal"
                        Padding="10">
                <TextBlock Text="{Binding Name}" />
                <TextBlock Text="{Binding Age}" />
            </StackPanel>
        </DataTemplate>
    </ListView.ItemTemplate>
</ListView>
```
 

> - Note that it's the route in the Navigation.Request that defines which view to open

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- NOTE: The route in Navigation.Request defines which view to open
```

> - Change the  request to "" in order for the view to be based on the data type to open)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Change the request to `""` to display a view based on the data type
```

> - Add Basic and Advanced Widgets and change Widgets to be a mix of widget types

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add additional widgets and change the `Widgets` property in the main view model to include multiple widget types
```

```csharp
public record Widget(string Name, double Weight) { }

public record BasicWidget(string Name, double Weight) : Widget(Name, Weight) { }

public record AdvancedWidget(string Name, double Weight) : Widget(Name, Weight) { }

public Widget[] Widgets { get; } = new Widget[]
{
    new BasicWidget("NormalSpinner", 5.0),
    new AdvancedWidget("HeavySpinner",50.0)
};
```

> - Copy SecondPage to ThirdPage (rename both xaml and cs files)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Copy the second page's XAML and code behind to a new third page with a different file name
```

> - Copy SecondViewModel to ThirdViewModel

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Copy the second view model to a newly-created, third view model
```

> - Change constructor of SecondViewModel to accept BasicWidget

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Change constructor of both the second and third view models to accept widgets of different types
```

- Change constructor of ThirdViewModel to accept AdvancedWidget

> - Change viewmap and routemap to include thirdviewmodel

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Change `ViewMap` and `RouteMap` to include the third view model
```
